- [Instructor] A relatively new addition
to the Spring Data umbrella project
is the Spring Data JDBC Repository.
Like Spring Data JPA repositories,
JDBC repositories interact with relational databases.
However, it does not rely on JPA.
JPA offers such features as lazy loading,
caching, and dirty tracking.
While useful, JPA can make an application
more complex than necessary.
Lazy loading may trigger expensive SQL statements
or unexpected exceptions,
caching hides recent updates to the database,
and dirty entity makes it difficult
to locate the point of operation persistence.
Spring Data JDBC bypasses lazy loading,
caching, and dirty tracking in favor of a simpler model.
SQL statements are issued when and only when
you invoke a repository method
and return a fully-loaded object,
but there are drawbacks.
Spring Data JDBC does not support
many-to-many or many-to-one mappings.
It must also be understood that the lifecycle
of a child object is coupled with the parent.
This is not necessarily a drawback
because it follows the principles of domain-driven design.
Let's look at a very simple coding example now.
In the pom.xml of our project,
we have a spring boot starter data JDBC dependency,
and the H2 in-memory database.
In our Domain folder, we have two entities:
Department and Chair.
Department is a parent entity
which has a one-to-one mapping to chair, the child entity.
Department has an ID, a name, and a chair.
And a chair as a name and
a back reference to department ID.
Unlike JPA, we must manually create
the physical database tables.
In a normal production environment,
external scripts would create the tables,
but for this demo, we'll use schema.sql scripts
to run at application startup.
Here we create the department table and the chair table.
Unlike other examples in this course,
each chair maps to one and only one department
because many-to-one is prohibited.
There is one department repository
which extends from CrudRepository.
And now let's run some demos of the repository.
We're in JBDC demos,
and we're going to start out by creating some chairs.
This will not affect the database yet.
So we create the chairs,
and now we're going to create the Humanities Department
with Dean Jones as a chair.
So I have a logging setup
so that we actually see, in the console window,
the SQL that's interacting with the database.
So from saving the Humanities,
it's that time we do an insert into department,
an insert into chair.
Now we'll create Natural Sciences
and so we see with Natural Sciences,
we have Dean Martin as the chair.
So we do an insert into department and an insert into chair.
Now for Social Sciences, Dean Jones, again,
is the department of Social Sciences
and there's an insert into department
and a new insert into chair.
So there will be two rows in the chair table
that have Dean Jones as entries.
Now we're going to do a find all to fetch all the departments
and here's all the departments and the chairs.
So you see that Dean Jones is twice.
And here's the SQL that's called for the find all
to map that to department.
Now we're going to look up the department by name.
We have a departmentRepository query method, find by name.
As of this recording, automatic property based queries
are not yet possible with JDBC Repositories.
So they must be implemented manually in SQL
with the at query annotation.
Here is the SQL query statement
to find a department by name.
It selects the department table fields
and joins them to the chair table field
and maps them to the Java object.
So we're going to find the Humanities department
by name and that works, and we're inside this lambda.
So there was that my select statement that we showed before.
Now we're going to update the department
by changing who the chair is.
So we have the entity of the department,
we're going to set the chair,
now we're going to save the department
and we'll look at the SQL that's generated there.
So first it deletes the chair that was there before,
updates the department, and how it knows that this
is an update and not an insert
is because the department ID is not null,
inserts a new chair, and then it's done.
If this topic interests you,
I encourage you to visit the spring.io website
for references and blogs, as well as code samples on GetHub.